#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{/accounts/gen/vis/paciorek/latex/paciorek-asa,times,graphics}
\input{/accounts/gen/vis/paciorek/latex/paciorekMacros}


%\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.5}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Stat243: Final group project, Due Friday Dec.
 12, 5 pm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project will be done in groups of 3-4, with students assigned randomly
 but balanced between statistics and non-statistics students.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A few comments.
 First, the project, when split amongst the group members, is not intended
 to be a huge undertaking.
 The goals of the project are to give you experience in working collaboratively
 and developing a well-designed, well-tested piece of software.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project will be graded as a letter grade and will count for about as
 much as two problem sets in your final grade.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Formatting requirements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Your solution to the problem should have two parts: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The code of your solution, including (a) a primary function that carries
 out the variable selection, (b) a function that carries out the formal
 tests you applied to your function, and (c) auxiliary functions used by
 the primary function and testing function.
 All code should be submitted to Github as a single text file with comments
 clearly delineating different pieces of the code.
 Please call the file 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

genetic.R
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Please call your main function "select" and your test function "test".
 Of course in your development you could use many files, but please combine
 for the final one.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A paper document describing your solution, prepared in LaTeX or R Markdown.
 The description does not need to be more than a couple pages, but should
 describe the approach you took in terms of functions/modularity/object-oriented
 programming, the results on one or more real examples, and the testing
 that you carried out.
 It must include a paragraph describing the specific contributions of each
 team member and which person/people were responsible for each component
 of the work.
 Please submit the paper document to me - either directly to me, under my
 door, or in my mailbox.
 On your paper solution, please indicate the last name of the group member
 who submitted the R code so that I know where to look on Github.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
For the help information on your main function, this can either be part
 of your R code as indicated below or if a PDF, can be stapled to your paper
 solution.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For a given subtask of the problem, if you find good code available, you
 may use it as a modular component of your code provided it does not constitute
 too large a part of your solution and provided you test the code.
 Consult me with questions on this matter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You should use Git and Github to manage your collaboration.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You should start the process by mapping out the modular components you need
 to write and how they will fit together, as well as what the primary function
 will do.
 After one person writes a component, another person on the team should
 test it and, with the original coder, improve it.
 You might also consider an approach called pair programming (see the Wikipedia
 entry) where two people write code side by side.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Your task is to implement an genetic algorithm for variable selection in
 regression problems, including both linear regression and GLMs.
 Some details are available in Section 3.4 of the Givens and Hoeting book
 on Computational Statistics - see the 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "electronic book available on Oskicat"
target "http://librarysurvey.berkeley.edu/librarysurvey/library.survey.logic?refUrl=http%3A%2F%2Fdx.doi.org%2F10.1002%2F9781118555552"

\end_inset

, or the PDF of Chapter 3 in the class Github repo.
 You should also be able to find plenty of other information about genetic
 algorithms online.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Your solution should allow the user to provide reasonable inputs, in terms
 of specifying a dataset and regression model formula, as well as the type
 of regression.
 Much of this is information you should just be able to pass along to 
\emph on
lm()
\emph default
 or 
\emph on
glm()
\emph default
.
 By default you should just use AIC as your objective criterion/fitness
 function, but allow users to provide their own fitness function.
 Similarly you can use the genetic operators described in Givens and Hoeting
 for variable selection, but ideally your code should be general enough
 that a user could provide additional operators.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Formal testing is required, with a set of tests where results are compared
 to some known truth.
 You should have tests for the overall function, and for any modules that
 do anything complicated.
 For testing the overall function, since the algorithm is stochastic, you'll
 need to think carefully about how to set this up.
 The output of your testing function should be clear and interpretable.
 I.e., when I run your test function, it should print informative messages
 of what it is doing and whether the test was passed or failed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Your solution should involve modular code, with functions or OOP methods
 that implement discrete tasks.
 You should have an overall design and style that is consistent across the
 components, in terms of functions vs.
 OOP methods, naming of objects, etc.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
In terms of efficiency, the generations are inherently sequential.
 However, you should try to vectorize as much as possible and allow for
 shared memory parallel processing when working with the population in a
 given generation, in particular the evaluation of the fitness function.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Show the results of using your implementation on one or more real examples.
 One possibility is to use it on a subset of the airline data from PS6.
 For example, you could model delay/non-delay based on predictors such as
 origin airport, destination airport, month-year combinations, origin-destinatio
n pairs, etc.
 But you don't have to use this dataset.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Your solution should include help/manual information as follows: (a) basic
 doc strings for any function you create (i.e., include comments at the beginning
 of the function), as well as commenting of code as appropriate.
 (b) An overall help page for the primary function.
 This could be in the form of comments in the R code in the form used in
 the 
\emph on
roxygen2
\emph default
 package (see 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
target "http://adv-r.had.co.nz/Documenting-functions.html"

\end_inset

 for an example) or simply a PDF (e.g., see the help info on, say, p.
 29 of 
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
target "http://www.cran.r-project.org/web/packages/spam/spam.pdf"

\end_inset

 for help on the 
\emph on
chol()
\emph default
 function in the 
\emph on
spam
\emph default
 package).
 I'd prefer the first (and that is likely to be easier), but the latter
 is fine too.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
